Audio Transcription Project This project uses Python to transcribe a
specific segment of an audio file using the pydub library for audio
processing and the whisper model for transcription. The goal of the
project is to extract a portion of an audio file and convert it into
text for further analysis or processing.

Project Overview The project performs the following tasks:

Audio File Processing: The audio file is loaded, and a specific segment
is extracted based on time range. Whisper Model Integration: The
extracted audio segment is transcribed using the Whisper model by
OpenAI. Transcription Output: The transcribed text is saved to a .txt
file. Requirements Before running the project, ensure you have the
following dependencies installed:

Python 3.6 or higher pydub library for audio manipulation whisper
library for transcription Install Dependencies To install the required
dependencies, use the following command:

bash Копировать Редактировать pip install -r requirements.txt
Alternatively, you can install the dependencies individually using:

bash Копировать Редактировать pip install pydub whisper Note: The pydub
library requires ffmpeg or libav to be installed for audio processing.
Follow the installation instructions for your system:

Install FFmpeg (for Windows, macOS, or Linux) Project Structure bash
Копировать Редактировать . ├── audio_transcription.py \# Main Python
script to process and transcribe audio ├── requirements.txt \# List of
Python dependencies ├── segment_output.mp3 \# Output audio file after
segment extraction ├── transcription_result.txt \# Output text file
containing transcribed content └── README.md \# Project documentation
(this file) Files audio_transcription.py: This script loads an audio
file, extracts a segment, transcribes it using Whisper, and saves the
transcription to a text file. requirements.txt: A text file that lists
all necessary Python libraries. segment_output.mp3: The audio segment
that has been extracted from the full audio file.
transcription_result.txt: The file containing the transcribed text from
the audio segment. How to Use Step 1: Prepare the Audio File Ensure you
have an audio file ready for transcription. This can be an MP3 file or
any other format supported by pydub. In the script, the default file is:

python Копировать Редактировать audio_path =
\"ITPU_MS_Degree_Session_5\_-\_Generative_AI-20241213_153714-Meeting_Recording.mp3\"
You can replace this with your own file path if needed.

Step 2: Update Time Range (Optional) In the script, you can specify the
start and end times for the audio segment you wish to transcribe:

python Копировать Редактировать start_ms = 15 \* 60 \* 1000 \# Start
time in milliseconds (15 minutes) end_ms = 18 \* 60 \* 1000 \# End time
in milliseconds (18 minutes) Change the values of start_ms and end_ms to
match the portion of the audio you want to process.

Step 3: Run the Script Once the audio file and time range are set, run
the Python script:

bash Копировать Редактировать python audio_transcription.py The script
will:

Load the audio file. Extract the specified segment. Use the Whisper
model to transcribe the audio segment. Save the transcribed text in
transcription_result.txt. Example Output The output will be saved in a
text file (transcription_result.txt). The content might look something
like this:

vbnet Копировать Редактировать API. And this is very, let me show the
slides. So here, here are the slides for today. So what is the Whisper?
And why are we discussing that? So mostly when people discuss the
generative AI or AI in general, so they focused on like LLMs, identical
pilots, functions, and stuff like that. Notes The audio extraction is
done using the pydub library, which allows you to specify the start and
end times of the audio segment. The transcription is handled by the
Whisper model, which provides highly accurate results for various types
of speech. Troubleshooting If you encounter any issues, consider the
following steps:

Make sure you have installed ffmpeg or libav for proper audio file
handling. Verify that the file path to the audio file is correct. Ensure
that your Python environment has the required dependencies. License This
project is open-source and available under the MIT License. See the
LICENSE file for more information.
